---
group: Data Cloud Consultant Guide
---
# Describe Data Cloud’s function, key terminology, and business value

## Define a customer data platform (CDP) (Data Cloud's function)

>[!Important] Data Cloud's function
>At a basic level, a [customer data platform](https://www.salesforce.com/blog/2019/10/what-is-a-cdp?d=cta-header-7) (CDP) is a place where a company collects and stores data about its customers. However, data collection can only take companies (and marketers) so far in the quest to deliver connected experiences.
## Describe data model challenges
The larger the company, the more systems they work with. And each system comes with a unique data model. This makes it challenging for users to unify data across departments and systems. Companies often solve this issue by asking developers or consultants to create custom code and solutions to connect the dots, which can slow innovation and lead to brittle integrations.

Enterprise data is rarely standardized. The data is instead heavily customized for specific business requirements—and can even be found in its raw form with unlimited decimals or lengths. This can be messy, but it gets messier. Data can also be classified as structured or unstructured. And there are many varieties of types of databases that store data, from relational databases that use Structured Query Language (SQL) to ones that don't, called NoSQL databases. Many organizations today store their data in a variety of databases. Having different types of data is fine, as long as it is easily retrievable—which isn’t always the case.
## Recognize Customer 360 Data Model terminology (Key Terminology)
>[!Important] Data cloud's Key Terminology
>- **Subject Area:** A subject area is a business concept or term used to group similar data objects to aid in data modeling, for example, sales orders, loyalty or engagement data. Each subject area contains one or more data model objects.
>- **Data Stream:** A data source brought into Data Cloud, for example, a Marketing Cloud customer data extension. These data streams can be based on batched data or real-time data streams.
>- **Data Model Object (DMO):** A data model object is a grouping of data (made up of attributes) that are created from data streams, insights, and other sources. DMOs can be standard or can be custom, based on business need. Common standard DMOs include sales orders, party identification, email engagement, and so on.
>- **Attribute:** An attribute, also called a field, is a specific piece of data found in a DMO, for example, a customer’s first name. This is similar to a data extension field in Marketing Cloud.
>- **Foreign Key:** A foreign key is a common link found between data sources that builds data relationships—for example, a customer ID number.
## Explain the benefits of Data Cloud (Business Value)
>[!Important] Data Cloud's Business Value
>With Data Cloud you can:
>- Create unified customer profiles across all touchpoints by connecting identities, engagement data, customer orders, loyalty, and marketing journeys.
>- Build smarter audience segments using insights and filtering capabilities.
>  - Activate data from anywhere across your organization.
>- Capture and unify data from anywhere with a high-scale data ingestion service.
>- Analyze your data using tools like Tableau or Marketing Cloud Intelligence.